I just broke up laughing in the middle
of recording a video thanks to some
funny comments in the live stream so
kudos kudos to you guys yeah that's the
first time that's ever happened good for
you I should I should break up laughing
at the mill my own videos more often
that's great um look I was making a
video here I had some thoughts who I was
out walking just now I never really had
thought before but the contrast between
vegetarianism and veganism in my own
life in the way I'm about to discuss
earlier today I was watching a video
somebody the last reading correctly
guessed it was a video from sorcerer
murasa Saoirse Morales and said hi to me
on Twitter earlier today so it went
looked at her video she had a video
where she was criticizing someone who
has been vegetarian for stickers so it
was an ethical vegetarian vegetarians a
look if you're Haskell vegetarian it
doesn't make sense unless it's a
transition to veganism course I
completely agree with if you are a
vegetarian for ethical reasons or
ecological reasons or both inevitably
you have to make transition to being
vegan or it doesn't make sense it makes
sense only as a transitional I thoughts
completely agree with sources point um
it led me to think for a moment however
about how vegetarianism and my own
subjective experience was different for
veganism and for me part of the
difference is the time of my life I got
older I got more mature and I certainly
did develop a more tolerance and
cooperative set of attitudes towards
politics as opposed to like many people
may be in my youth I was a bit more
revolutionary in my aspiration I still
do think that veganism is something that
tries to change the world it has a
horizon of wanting to I mean Neil
abolish the meat dairy industry abolish
the slaughterhouses fundamentally
changed the way humans animals what
together in the future but I do not
think it's a revolutionary movement and
things quite misleading to think of it
or represent it as if it's a violent or
revolutionary movement however it's a
pretty fundamental challenge to society
i would say that growing up my ideas
about vegetarianism were influenced in a
subtle and pervasive way for one thing
because i grew up in an immigrant
ciety I grew up in toronto in toronto
canada it is incredibly rare to meet
indigenous people First Nations people
the kree the Aegean Mohawks the Euro
clog you I've met a few in Toronto but
very very rare and on the contrary you
meet vegetarians from China from India
etc etc my father was involved with and
influenced by Hinduism at an early age
at one stage of my father's university
career he actually wanted to learn
Sanskrit and study Hindu philosophy and
this kind of thing way back in the 1950s
my father is 100 years old but I mean as
you say this is long before you know
like in the late 1960s there was a much
more popular Western reaction to
Hinduism in American culture what have
you and that not happened yet so my
father guidance that stephanie was young
man i do think that through my father's
influence and simply through the kind of
influence of living in Toronto I do
think that i saw vegetarianism as a
personal commitment to an ethical ideal
that isolated you from society and put
you in the position of maintaining your
own moral purity despite the meat-eating
society around you a refusal to
assimilate into a meeting society but
not as an attempt to transform the
society so for example a Brahmin Hindu
Brahmin who becomes an immigrant who
migrates from India to England or Canada
the United States is stereotypically
someone is going to try to maintain
their own purity maintain their own
religious tradition or maintain a
vegetarian diet for themselves and their
family but they're not trying to
transform British society or Canadian
society to resemble a Hindu Brahmin
society they're not trying to turn it
from the problem there are many reasons
for that including the fact that you
know Hinduism is an exclusive religious
community they're not trying to let
people there aren't encouraged people to
convert into the religion and especially
the upper castes like Brahmins they're
even more exclusive so you know it's an
exclusive club and you can't just join
nor are they trying to convert the whole
world to join unlike say Christianity
many Christians do want the whole
the question so for me subjectively what
I was reflecting on is that the
transformative aspirations of veganism
wanting to transformable side the
abolitionist aspirations want to abolish
the meat and dairy industry diet is
something very different from just the
way I personally perceived vegetarianism
before I became vegan and the
unexplained factor here I'd only have to
get into this video is just that
definitely I was younger and when I was
younger it was vegetarian I think it's
true that I both flirted more with a
revolutionary aesthetic haha in terms of
my thoughts and just feeling like a
political dissident in in Canadian
society but it's also true that I I also
felt more powerless and the kind of
experiences talked about on this channel
ad nauseam have said so many times you
know going to City Hall and really being
involved in an understanding political
processes whether it's in a boardroom or
you know what Parliament is the
understanding i developed of both
economic and procedural aspects of
politics and justice nebulas time went
on you know that both led me to have a
more conciliatory cooperative and
tolerant set of attitudes towards
politics but it also led me to have very
down-to-earth faith that we can make a
difference in the same way that Mothers
Against Drunk Driving can change the
laws against drunk driving can change
the culture of how people drink alcohol
and how people take taxis and all these
other things in the same way that you
know the status of homosexuals has
changed without a revolution there never
was a gay revolution but there was a you
know complex community-based you know
political movement that did change
Western civilization and many
fundamental ways change the laws change
the cultures the culture from from root
to branch that in the same way veganism
can can advance can make progress I mean
I just say ultimately there I use the
word empowering or imperfect
as I've gotten older it's true that my
aspirations became less revolutionary my
form of descent you know became more
refined or even more conformist you
could say but tear with that is a real
sense of the power that common people
have if five or ten people can get
together and everyone throws five
dollars into a hat and you know
cooperates and gets organized that I you
know I do see in the modern Western
world how porous the establishment is
and probably when I was younger I saw
the establishment is something all
powerful and myself as powerless and
felt that me and people like me and my
generation could never influence
political outcomes or social change in
any way and that of course lends to a
more rambunctious set of
anti-establishment sentiments that's it
people um so obviously a completely
idiosyncratic completely subjective set
of reflections now for me vegetarianism
was a very different ideology than
veganism but even back when I was
vegetarian I could remember being so
excited to meet someone else who happen
to be vegetarian an ethical vegetarian
and really wanting to make friends them
really you know feeling we had something
profoundly important in common like
especially out here when I was remember
when I was only vegetarian and living in
asia-- and you meet someone else and
think oh we got to go and almost never
did the other people feel that way the
other people just thought they were
vegetarians don't take deal so nice to
nice to know of a circle of friends
thanks to youtube thanks to the one is
the internet who take veganism seriously
the same lies you and see the same more
remote horizon of proceeding toward some
kind of meaningful social change